The DTV includes several features which extend the capabilities of the original Commodore C64.

== DTV Hardware features ==
* see [[C64 DTV Hacking Wiki#DTV Versions|front page]] or [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C64DTV Wikipedia] article

== Articles on DTV Features ==
* [[Blitting Benchmarks]] between the DMA, the Blitter, the burst mode and classic C64 blitting methods
* TODO: Playing 8 bits audio sample using DTV SID additional registers
* TODO: Implementing stable symmetric overscan
* TODO: Display a 16 colors picture in FRED mode

== Programming Documentation ==
=== For DTV1 ===
* [[Media:Dtv-registers-full.txt|DTV Registers Full]] - the definitive reference by Jeri Ellsworth herself.

=== For DTV2/DTV3 ===
* '''[[DTV_Programming|DTV2/3 Programming guide]]''' - the definitive reference, originally written by Jeri Ellsworth herself.
** [[DTV FRED Mode]] description
** [[DTV FRED Mode 2]] description
** [[DTV2 Kernal disassembly]] - including explanations of the DTV2/3 flash file system and user port bits
** [[DTV Flash File System]] links and ideas
* [[Media:DTV-Ver2-Schematic.pdf|DTV2/3 Reference Schematic]] (PDF)
* [[Media:segmapper_1c.pdf|Segment Mapper Tutorial, revC]] (PDF) Explores techniques for accessing extended RAM & ROM. (by gmoon)

=== General C64 Docs ===
* '''[http://unusedino.de/ec64/technical/aay/c64/ All About Your 64]''' - opcodes, memory maps, chip specifications, commented ROM listings, nicely interlinked.
* ''[http://zimmers.net/cbmpics/cbm/c64/vic-ii.txt The MOS 6567/6569 video controller (VIC-II) and its application in the Commodore 64]'' by Christian Bauer
* Docs (mirrored) by Fairlight
** [http://www.ludd.luth.se/~watchman/fairlight/c64/c64-io.html Commodore 64 input/output Assignments]
** [http://www.ludd.luth.se/~watchman/fairlight/c64/c64-memo.html Commodore 64 memory map]
** [http://www.ludd.luth.se/~watchman/fairlight/c64/c64-ram.html Commodore 64 Ram addresses]
** [http://www.ludd.luth.se/~watchman/fairlight/c64/c64-rom.html Commodore 64 Rom addresses]

== Programming Tools ==
=== 6510 Assemblers ===
* [http://turbo.style64.org Turbo Assembler] with native support of DTV opcodes
* [http://turbo.style64.org/tmp.php Turbo Macro Pro] - Assembler for 6510/DTV originating from the Omikron Turbo Assembler series
* [[DTVMON]] - DTV specific machine language monitor originating in HesMon and CCSMON

=== 6510 Cross-Assemblers ===
* [http://www.theweb.dk/KickAssembler/Main.php Kick Assembler] - a novel cross-assembler for 6502/6510/DTV. Java. No source available.
* [http://www.floodgap.com/retrotech/xa/ xa and dxa] - xa assembler and dxa disassembler written in portable C. GPL. DTV support pending.
* [http://www.atari2600.org/DASM/ Dasm] - a 6502 cross-assembler written in portable C. Source included. No DTV support. Last update in 2004.
* Acme, TAss, CA65, C64Asm
* [http://www.npsnet.com/danf/cbm/cross-development.html 6502 Cross-Development Languages and Tools List] - BIG list of cross-dev tools, compiled by Daniel Fandrich
* [http://www.fairlight.to/tools/pc.html World of Fairlight] - Fairlight's Tools, everything plus the kitchen sink

=== IDE (PC) ===
* [http://www.popelganda.de Relaunch64]
* Any good text editor with syntax highlighting and Run command line capabilities (to call the cross-assembler)

=== Other Programming Languages ===
* [http://www.cc65.org/ cc65] is a complete cross development package for 65(C)02 systems, including a powerful macro assembler, '''a C compiler''', linker, librarian and several other tools. No specific DTV support as of June 2007.
* [http://www.thegang.nu/dtv_basic.php DTVBASIC] - A BASIC extension for the DTV, by Grokk. Includes RAMdisk and DMA support.

=== C64DTV Emulators ===
* [http://viceplus.sourceforge.net/ VICEplus] features C64DTV emulation.

=== Other tools ===
* [[VSFReanimator]] converts a VICE snapshot (.vsf) to a .prg file that can be started on the DTV.

==65xx Documentation==

*[http://6502.org/ 6502.org] - a resource for people interested in building hardware or writing software for the 6502 microprocessor and its relatives