= Standard DTV ROM file system =

For a description of the normal DTV ROM file system (read only, device 1, directory at $010000, files at $014000) see http://galaxy22.dyndns.org/dtv/common/flash-files/ and [[DTV2 Kernal disassembly]].

* [[DTVFSEdit]] (GUI) can open, edit, and write DTV flash file systems, handling compression transparently
* [[dtvmkfs|Spiff's dtvmkfs]] can create this type of filesystem (command line)
** [http://www.kahlin.net/daniel/dtv/flash.php tlr's dtvpack] is needed to compress .prgs first
* [http://symlink.dk/nostalgia/dtv/dtvmkfs/ Spiff's dirdump] can extract files from an image of this filesystem (command line)

= DTVFS2 =

This is a description of a to-be implemented DTV flash filesystem that can be modified more easily and allows implementation of SAVE on the DTV.

Interesting links:
* http://sources.redhat.com/jffs2/ - JFFS2 description
* http://freenet-homepage.de/hardwarerobby/c64/documentation.html - attaching an MMC card to the user port
* http://jledger.proboards19.com/index.cgi?board=dtvhacking&action=display&thread=1159386785&page=1 - PS1 memory card on user port

== Requirements ==

* fault tolerance - the DTV2/3's AT47 flash supposedly only allows about 100 erase cycles
** erase only if absolutely necessary (= flash full, garbage collection needed)
** wear-levelling - make sure no block gets stressed out of proportion
** if individual blocks fail (= can't get erased properly) this shouldn't make the whole flash unusable
* low overhead
** on-medium: 2MB of flash are not much to begin with
** RAM requirements should be generally low and only occur on medium access

Not required:

* Truncating/changing files (delete and create is enough)
* open/read/write/close support (would require persistent handles in memory)

== Filesystem outline ==
=== Data structures ===
* One file occupies one or more nodes à 1kB. One block is 64 nodes. Only complete blocks can be erased (= set to FF).
** 64 nodes are reserved in order to keep garbage collection simple.
* Node structure
** File number: 16 bits (ff ff: free node, 00 00: bad/broken flash area, f0 00: obsoleted node, other: file number)
** Node sequence number: 16 bits (00 00: bad/broken flash area, 00 01: start of file + data, other: data)
*** start of file: null-terminated filename, null-terminated feature list (each feature is a stream of bytes - MSB unset indicates end of feature), 3b data len, data

=== Algorithms ===
* Read file: Search through seq==1 nodes for filename, get file number, walk through nodes with this file number ordered by sequence number.

* Write file
** Any block containing only obsoleted nodes? Erase block.
** If (number of free nodes) > (nodes needed + 64), save nodes to random free nodes. Save done.
** If (number of free+obsoleted nodes) < (nodes needed + 64), fail (not enough free space).
** else: grab block (G) containing many obsoleted nodes randomly OR (small chance) any other block.
** Number of non-obsoleted nodes (N) in G <= free nodes: Write N to free nodes.
** else: fail (user has to delete files first - should happen only if flash is partially bad already)
** Mark all nodes as obsoleted in G, erase G, check erase successful; no: mark bad nodes in G.
** Repeat (at max n times, fail otherwise) until enough free nodes available.
** TODO: A more sensible approach dealing with bad nodes would be good.

* Erase file: Mark all file's nodes as obsoleted.

* Filesystem verify (in case of crash/power outage): 1. Check for incompletely written files, mark nodes as obsolete (crash during file write). 2. Check for duplicate nodes (same seq/file num). Continue copy, mark old node as obsolete. (crash during node copy)

This does not handle unstable erases due to power outage completely.

== Implementation plan ==

* Read file
* Erase file
* Write file
* Garbage collection
* Transparent compression (possibly using http://www.cs.tut.fi/~albert/Dev/puzip/)
* Read-only D64 support?
* Directory support?