== About ==
DTVSlimIntro is a replacement for the original INTRO file in the DTV's flash. It is based on Roland's INTRO ([http://www.forum64.de/wbb2/thread.php?threadid=9737 Forum64.de thread]). Additionally to listing and starting programs, DTV palette can be chosen out of four presets as well as completely customized.

* Palette A: [http://jledger.proboards19.com/index.cgi?board=dtvhacking&action=display&thread=1896&page=1#19314 Luminance-fixed] [http://jledger.proboards19.com/index.cgi?board=dtvhacking&action=display&thread=1896 Spiff palette]
* Palette B: [http://jledger.proboards19.com/index.cgi?board=dtvhacking&action=display&thread=1471&page=1#9645 Zee palette] (default)
* Palette C: 1570 palette
* Palette D: [[DTV2_Kernal_disassembly|C64DTV default palette]]

== Usage ==
Put the file into the DTV's flash (for example using "Import PRG" in [[DTVFSEdit]]). It will display any files in Flash that use a start address different from 0. If start address is $0100/256, it will be started using BASIC RUN.

=== Go to BASIC ===
There's no "go to BASIC" option in DTVSlimIntro. However, you can simply put a dummy entry into the flash with start address 58260 ($E394: BASIC Cold Start). [[Media:basic_dtv.zip|Spiff ZIP]] containing this trick.

=== PAL output settings ($D04E) ===
In the file listing, pressing the DTV buttons changes the DTV's D04E value (A=0,...,D=3). Some FBAS=>VGA converters are known not to work properly with the DTV's default setting (D04E=0) but with D04E=2 or 3. However, other devices have issues with these settings again.

If you want to hardcode a default value in DTVSlimIntro, use a hex editor to replace $2c at offset $7cf in the file by $8d, and put the D04E value of choice to $7ce. In the source, see the code after label ''mstart''.

=== Autostart ===
DTVSlimIntro will autostart any file named AUTOSTART unless a key is pressed or joy2 is moved/a button pressed while DTVSlimIntro starts. This makes defaulting to BASIC, a modified softkernal, or the original DTVMENU quite easy.

== Changes ==
* 2009-09-19: added AUTOSTART feature, support movement using cursor keys (file list only)
* 2008-10-11: added PAL D04E fix needed for some FBAS=>VGA converters, fixed palettes, faster start
* 2007-11-03: Enable skip+burst for LOAD - big speedup for files that have not been compressed apart from the DTV Flash compression
* 2007-09-20: Can load large files (extending above $0110f7), minor palette change

=== Todo ===
Not implemented yet (any takers?).
* Parse "$" instead of accessing FlashROM
** Will make the program independent from individual FlashFS implementation (see [[DTV Flash File System]]).

== Download ==
* [https://viceplus.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/viceplus/trunk/tools/dtvslimintro/dtvslimintro.prg dtvslimintro.prg] - Put as INTRO into Flash. Load to $0801.
* [http://viceplus.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/viceplus/trunk/tools/dtvslimintro/ SVN repository]