Currently there are many ways to transfer programs to your DTV. They mostly depend on what you want to achieve and the peripherals you have.

Common transfer methods are:

====Using a DTV Joystick Port (or the User Port) ====
* Use [[DTVTrans]] by Daniel Kahlin (tlr)
** Fast (~12kBytes/Sec). PC with parallel port and special cable needed. Data can be transferred to the C64DTV's RAM this way. Bootstrapping can be done using a small BASIC program (see boot.txt included in DTVTrans download).

====Use the DTV [[IEC port]]====
* With the PC-based parallel [http://sta.c64.org/x1541.html X1541 cable] or [http://sta.c64.org/xe1541.html XE1541 cable] and some PC-based C64 floppy emulation like [http://www.64hdd.com/64hdd.html 64hdd] 
** Extremely slow, some compatibility issues, DOS/FAT needed
* With a real C64 floppy drive ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commodore_1541 1541], [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commodore_1581 1581],...)
** Slow but of course highly compatible, using 1541 need a way to write data on a floppy (real C64), widespread solution by the way.
* With the [http://www.c64-wiki.com/index.php/MMC2IEC MMC2IEC] SD & MMC based drive 
* With the [http://www.c64-wiki.com/index.php/1541-III 1541-III] SD Card based drive

====DTVLoad====
DTVLoad is a transfer program for the Hummer, an addition to the modified C64 Kernel that is standard in the Hummer ROM.

* [[DTVLoad Details]]

Any data loaded into the DTV's RAM can be transferred to its FlashROM afterwards using the [[Flash utility]].

Transferring data '''without hardware modifications''' is not possible since the DTV does not feature any input connectors.